[EDU-2656] feat: Rate Limit with Penalty guide (EN) (#363)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/marketplace/integrations/rate-limiting-with-penalty/rate-limiting-with-penalty.mdx

---

> title: How to install Rate Limiting with Penalty through Azion Marketplace

Author: ```suggestion
title: How to install Upstash Rate Limiting with Penalty through Azion Marketplace
```

description: This integration allows you to control incoming traffic right at the edge and protect your applications.
meta_tags: marketplace, edge computing, rate limiting
namespace: docs_guides_rate_limiting_penalty
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/rate-limiting-with-penalty/
---

> **Rate Limiting with Penalty** allows you to control incoming traffic right at the edge of the network, avoiding bottlenecks, managing traffic spikes, and protecting your applications from potential threats such as DDoS, fuzzing, or brute force attacks. 

Author: ```suggestion
**Upstash Rate Limiting with Penalty** allows you to control incoming traffic right at the edge of the network, avoiding bottlenecks, managing traffic spikes, and protecting your applications from potential threats such as DDoS, fuzzing, or brute force attacks. 
```

Rate Limiting with Penalty is integrated with the `upstash/ratelimit` library and provides a global accounting of the rate limit, summing up all the requests received across the entire network, instead of counting separately for each edge location.

---

## Requirements 

To start using this integration, you need to:

- Create an [Upstash account](https://console.upstash.com/login).
- Create a Global Database for the best available edge latency in the [Upstash Console](https://console.upstash.com/).

---

## Getting the integration

To install this integration:

1. Log in to [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
- If you don’t have an account yet, create a new one [by visiting the sign-up page](https://manager.azion.com/signup/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, open the **Products menu**, represented by three horizontal lines.
3. Select **Marketplace**.
4. On the Marketplace homepage, select the search box and type “*rate limiting with penalty*” or browse through the cards to find the integration.

> 5. Once you’ve found the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** card, select it to go to the integration page.

Author: ```suggestion
5. Once you’ve found the **Upstash Rate Limiting with Penalty** card, select it to go to the integration page.
```

6. On the integration page, look for the **Subscribe for** section on the bottom-right corner.
7. Click the **Get It Now** button.

You’ll see a message indicating that your integration was successfully installed.

Then, you'll need to complete the steps explained below to instantiate the function and configure a rule set.

---

## Configuring the integration

### Setting up the Edge Firewall rule

> To instantiate the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** integration, follow the steps:

Author: ```suggestion
To instantiate the **Upstash Rate Limiting with Penalty** integration, follow the steps:
```

1. Open the **Products menu** and select **Edge Firewall** in the **SECURE** section.
2. Click the **Add Rule Set** button.
3. Give an easy-to-remember name to your new rule.
4. Select the domains you want to protect with the function.
5. Enable the **Edge Functions** switch in the **Edge Firewall Modules**.
- This action gives access to edge functions on your edge firewall.
6. Click the **Save** button.

Done. Now you’ve instantiated the rule for your function.

### Setting up the Edge Firewall function

While still on the **Edge Firewall** page, select the **Functions** tab and follow these steps:

1. Click the **Add Function** button.
2. Give an easy-to-remember name to your instance.

> 3. On the dropdown menu, select the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** function.

Author: ```suggestion
3. On the dropdown menu, select the **Upstash Rate Limiting with Penalty** function.
```

- If `start` isn't defined, the default value will be `00:00`. If `end` isn't defined, the default value of `23:59`" will be assumed. In case of overlaps between rate limits, the rate limit that is first in the JSON Args will be considered.

- When the `penalty_in_seconds` variable isn't filled in, the rate limit won't apply a penalty, behaving like a *simple* rate limit.

### Setting up the Rules Engine

To finish, you have to set up a rule in **Rules Engine** to configure the **criteria** and the **behavior** to run the function.

Still in the **Edge Firewall** page:

1. Select the **Rules Engine** tab.
2. Click the **New Rule** button.
3. Give an easy-to-remember name to the rule.
4. Select a *criteria* to run and catch the domains that you want to run the solution on. Example: `if Hostname is equal xxxxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net`.
5. Below, select the **Run Function** *behavior* to the *criteria*.
6. Select the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** function according to the name you gave it before.
7. Click the **Save** button.

Done. Now **Rate Limiting with Penalty** is running and protecting your domains.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> Done. Now **Rate Limiting with Penalty** is running and protecting your domains.

Author: ```suggestion
Done. Now **Upstash Rate Limiting with Penalty** is running and protecting your domains.
```

---
title: How to install Rate Limiting with Penalty through Azion Marketplace

> description: This integration allows you to control of incoming traffic right at the edge and protect your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: This integration allows you to control incoming traffic right at the edge and protect your applications.
```

meta_tags: marketplace, edge computing, rate limiting
namespace: docs_guides_rate_limiting_penalty
permalink: /documentation/products/guides/rate-limiting-with-penalty/
---

> Azion **Rate Limiting with Penalty** allows you to control of incoming traffic right at the edge of the network, avoiding bottlenecks, managing traffic spikes, and protecting your applications from potential threats such as DDoS, fuzzing, or brute force attacks. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Azion **Rate Limiting with Penalty** allows you to control incoming traffic right at the edge of the network, avoiding bottlenecks, managing traffic spikes, and protecting your applications from potential threats such as DDoS, fuzzing, or brute force attacks. 
```

With this integration, based on an edge function, you can define:

- **Limiting requests** and **window limit**, including specific rate limit windows for different periods of the day.
- A **penalty** configuration that analyzes the validity of each request.
  - If the request isn't valid, it blocks the request and returns the user a `403 Forbidden` status code. If the request is valid, it counts the request and, in case it reaches the defined rate limit, it interrupts the request and returns a `429 Too Many Requests` status code.

> It's integrated with the `upstash/ratelimit` library and provides a global accounting of the rate limit, summing up all the requests received across the entire network, instead of counting separately for each edge location.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Rate Limiting with Penalty is integrated with the `upstash/ratelimit` library and provides a global accounting of the rate limit, summing up all the requests received across the entire network, instead of counting separately for each edge location.
```

---

## Requirements 

To start using this integration, you need to:

- Create an [Upstash account](https://console.upstash.com/login).
- Create a Global Database for the best available edge latency in the [Upstash Console](https://console.upstash.com/).

---

## Getting the integration

> To install this integration, you have to:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install this integration:
```

1. Log in to [Real-Time Manager (RTM)](https://manager.azion.com/).
- If you don’t have an account yet, create a new one [by visiting the sign-up page](https://manager.azion.com/signup/).
2. On the upper-left corner of the page, open the **Products menu**, represented by three horizontal lines.
3. Select **Marketplace**.
4. On the Marketplace homepage, select the search box and type “*rate limiting with penalty*” or browse through the cards to find the integration.
5. Once you’ve found the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** card, select it to go to the solution page.
6. On the solution page, look for the **Subscribe for** section on the bottom-right corner.
7. Click the **Get It Now** button.

You’ll see a message indicating that your solution was successfully installed.

> Then, you'll need to complete the steps explained below to instanciate the function and configure the rules engine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then, you'll need to complete the steps explained below to instantiate the function and configure a rule.
```

| Variable | Type |
| ---- | ---- |
| `upstash_redis_rest_url` | The URL of your Upstash database that will store the rate limit and penalty data. |
| `upstash_redis_rest_token` | Your Upstash API access token. |
| `rate_limit_prefix` | It defines a prefix to be used in all the rate limit keys. This variable is crucial to avoid overlaps between different instances of the function. |
| `rate_limit_key_metadata` | It defines which metadata variables will be used to generate the rate limit key in Azion's platform. |
| `rate_limit_key_header` | It defines which headers will be used to generate the rate limit key in Azion's platform. |
| `rate_limit_key_hostname` | If `true`, the URL will be used to generate the Rate Limit "key". |
| `rate_limit_repenalize` | If `true`, the penalty time is recalculated every time a penalized user makes a request. |
| `rate_limits` | It defines the rate limit windows as an object. You must **add at least one** object. |
| `algorithm` | It defines the rate limit algorithm to be applied. Possible values: `fixed_window`, `sliding_window`, `token_bucket`. [Read more](#important). |
| `requests` | Maximum number of requests until reaching the rate limit. |

> | `interval` | Rate limit window time interval. This variable follows the Upstash standard: `XXXX y`, where the X are the numeral and y the unit of measurement, which can be `s` for seconds or `m` for minutes. Example: `120 s`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `interval` | Rate limit window time interval. This variable follows the Upstash standard: `XXXX y`, where the X are the numeral and y is the unit of measurement, which can be `s` for seconds or `m` for minutes. Example: `120 s`. |
```

> | `start and end`| These variables define the time window. It uses the 24-hour format and the UTC time zone. [Read more](#important). |

Reviewer: não é start_and_end?

> | `penalty_in_seconds` | Penalty time (blocking that retunrs `403`status code) that users will be subjected to after violating the rate limit. [Read more](#important) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `penalty_in_seconds` | Penalty time (blocking that retunrs `403` status code) that users will be subjected to after violating the rate limit. [Read more](#important) |
```

:::note
The key to a rate limit is made up of the combination of all these variables. In this code sample, the final key would be:
`my_rate_limit + User IP + X-a-custom-reader Header Value + Hostname used in the request`.

Example:
`my_rate_limit_127.0.0.1_Teste_azion.com`.
:::

#### Important

> - This integration permits you to define different rate limit windows for different periods of the day, according to your needs. Example: you can define a limit of `10 requests/minute` from `00:00` to `12:00`, and `15 requests/minute` from `12:01` to `23:59`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- This integration allows you to define different rate limit windows for different periods of the day, according to your needs. Example: you can define a limit of `10 requests/minute` from `00:00` to `12:00`, and `15 requests/minute` from `12:01` to `23:59`.
```

- This integration supports three possible values for `algorithm`:
  - `fixed_window` divides time into fixed durations/windows.

>   - `sliding_window`builds on top of fixed window but uses a rolling window. Example: you want to define a rate limit of 10 requests per 1 minute, then, you divide the time into 1 minute slices, like in the `fixed window` algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `sliding_window` builds on top of fixed window but uses a rolling window. Example: you want to define a rate limit of 10 requests per 1 minute, then, you divide the time into 1 minute slices, like in the `fixed window` algorithm.
```

>   - `token_bucket` defines the maximum number of tokens to fill a bucket and the interval which the bucket will be cleaned. Every request removes one token and if there is no token to take, the request is rejected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `token_bucket` defines the maximum number of tokens to fill a bucket and the interval which the bucket will be cleaned. Every request removes one token and if there's no token to take, the request is rejected.
```

- The `token_bucket` includes different values, where:
  - `max_tokens` defines the number of tokens (or keys) that this rate limit will allow.
  - `refil_rate` defines the number of buckets that will be "cleaned" at each time interval.

```bash
"algorithm": "token_bucket",
  	    "refil_rate": 5,
  	    "max_tokens": 5,
  	    "interval": "10 s",
           "start": "23:01",
            "penalty_in_seconds": 55
```

In this example, every `10 seconds`, `5 buckets` are cleaned, out of a maximum of `5 "busy" buckets`.

> - If `start` isn't defined, the default value will be `00:00`. If `end` isn't defined, the default value will be `23:59`" will be assumed. In case of overlaps between rate limits, the rate limit that is first in the JSON Args will be considered.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If `start` isn't defined, the default value will be `00:00`. If `end` isn't defined, the default value of `23:59`" will be assumed. In case of overlaps between rate limits, the rate limit that is first in the JSON Args will be considered.
```

> - When the `penalty_in_seconds` variable isn't filled in, the rate limit will not apply a penalty, behaving like a *simple* rate limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- When the `penalty_in_seconds` variable isn't filled in, the rate limit won't apply a penalty, behaving like a *simple* rate limit.
```

### Setting up the Rules Engine

> To finish, you have to set up a **Rules Engine** to configure the **criteria** and the **behavior** to run the function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To finish, you have to set up a rule in **Rules Engine** to configure the **criteria** and the **behavior** to run the function.
```

> Still in the **Edge Firewall** page, select the Rules Engine tab and follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Still in the **Edge Firewall** page:

1. Select the **Rules Engine** tab.
```

Reviewer: se aceitar essa suggestion, precisa ajustar os números dos passos abaixo

> 
> 1. Click the **New Rule** button.
> 2. Give an easy-to-remember name to the rule.
> 3. Select a *criteria* to run and catch the domains that you want to run the solution on. Example: `if Hostname is equal xxxxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net`.
> 4. Below, select the **Run Function** *behavior* to the *criteria*.
> 5. Select the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** function according to the name you gave it before.
> 6. Click the **Save** button.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Click the **New Rule** button.
3. Give an easy-to-remember name to the rule.
4. Select a *criteria* to run and catch the domains that you want to run the solution on. Example: `if Hostname is equal xxxxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net`.
5. Below, select the **Run Function** *behavior* to the *criteria*.
6. Select the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** function according to the name you gave it before.
7. Click the **Save** button.
```

- If `start` isn't defined, the default value will be `00:00`. If `end` isn't defined, the default value of `23:59`" will be assumed. In case of overlaps between rate limits, the rate limit that is first in the JSON Args will be considered.

- When the `penalty_in_seconds` variable isn't filled in, the rate limit won't apply a penalty, behaving like a *simple* rate limit.

### Setting up the Rules Engine

To finish, you have to set up a rule in **Rules Engine** to configure the **criteria** and the **behavior** to run the function.

Still in the **Edge Firewall** page:

1. Select the **Rules Engine** tab.
2. Click the **New Rule** button.
3. Give an easy-to-remember name to the rule.
4. Select a *criteria* to run and catch the domains that you want to run the solution on. Example: `if Hostname is equal xxxxxxxxxxxx.map.azionedge.net`.
5. Below, select the **Run Function** *behavior* to the *criteria*.
6. Select the **Rate Limiting with Penalty** function according to the name you gave it before.
7. Click the **Save** button.

Done. Now **Rate Limiting with Penalty** is running and protecting your domains.

> import Button from '~/components/Button.astro';
> 
> <Button href="/en/documentation/products/edge-application/domains/" text="go to Domains reference" variant="secondary"> 
> 
> </Button>

Author: ```suggestion
```

| `rate_limit_key_metadata` | It defines which metadata variables will be used to generate the rate limit key in Azion's platform. |
| `rate_limit_key_header` | It defines which headers will be used to generate the rate limit key in Azion's platform. |
| `rate_limit_key_hostname` | If `true`, the URL will be used to generate the Rate Limit "key". |
| `rate_limit_repenalize` | If `true`, the penalty time is recalculated every time a penalized user makes a request. |
| `rate_limits` | It defines the rate limit windows as an object. You must **add at least one** object. |
| `algorithm` | It defines the rate limit algorithm to be applied. Possible values: `fixed_window`, `sliding_window`, `token_bucket`. [Read more](#important). |
| `requests` | Maximum number of requests until reaching the rate limit. |
| `interval` | Rate limit window time interval. This variable follows the Upstash standard: `XXXX y`, where the X are the numeral and y is the unit of measurement, which can be `s` for seconds or `m` for minutes. Example: `120 s`. |

> | `start and end`| These variables define the time window. It uses the 24-hour format and the UTC time zone. [Read more](#important). |

Author: ```suggestion
| `start` and `end`| These variables define the time window. It uses the 24-hour format and the UTC time zone. [Read more](#important). |
```
